Ramone/blockscout (#64)
HorizenOfficial/evm-documentation: docs/02-connect/04-eon_block_explorer.md

---
title: Horizen EON Explorer
---

> The Horizen EON Explorer (Gobi Testnet Block Explorer) leverages the feature-rich Blockscout Explorer, an online tool for inspecting and analyzing the Gobi Testnet blockchain. Blockscout is an open-source code that allows the ability to customize a block explorer instance to view all transactions, past and current, on the blockchain. Customization can include information such as network hash rate and transaction details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Horizen EON Explorer (Gobi Testnet Block Explorer) leverages the feature-rich Blockscout Explorer, an online tool for inspecting and analyzing the Gobi Testnet blockchain. Blockscout is open-source code that allows the ability to customize a block explorer instance to view all transactions, past and current, on the blockchain. Customization options include information such as the network's hash rate and transaction details.

```

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-landing.png").default} alt="landing-page" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

> **Note:** Use **Search** to query for specific transaction, address (wallet or contract), block, and token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Use **Search** to query for a specific transaction, address (wallet or contract), block, and token.

```

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-daily.png").default} alt="daily-transaction" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

The categories in the Daily Transaction dashboard includes:

- A **graph view** of transactions processed during a time period. It includes metrics for tracking gas and transactions on a daily basis.
- **Average block time** - This is the average time that a block is created.
- **Total transactions** - The total number of transactions in a time period in the blockchain.
- **Total blocks** - The total number of blocks in the blockchain.
- **Wallet address** - The total number of wallet addresses associated with transactions in the blockchain.

## Blocks

The Block module provides key information about the block.

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-blocks.png").default} alt="blocks-module" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Block number** - The number assigned to the block.
- **Number of transactions** - The running number of transactions for the block.
- **Number of bytes** - The amount of bytes for the block.

> - **Elapsed timer for the block** - Clock counting since block creation period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Elapsed timer for the block** - Tracks amount of time since block creation.

```

> - **Miner (wallet) address** - The miner’s address. Click the address to Address Detail page.

Reviewer: seems like a word is missing in the last sentence

Author: made corrections

## Transactions

The **Transaction** module provides key information about the transaction.

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-transactions.png").default} alt="transactions" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

> - **Transaction Status** - Success or Error: (Awaiting internal transaction for reason)

Reviewer: What does "Awaiting internal transaction for reason" mean? It may be simpler to just say that it gives status details of the transaction

Author: correction made

- **Transaction ID (hash)** - The unique identifier that validates the transaction.
- **Address** - The wallet address associated with the transaction. 
- **Transaction Fee** - The amount charged to process the transaction.

> - **Contract Address** - The contract address associated with the transaction. Click the address to **Address Detail** page.

Reviewer: This is similar to the comment I made above with the missing word. Also, if we are bolding "Address Detail" here, we may want to do it in the previous text as well?
```suggestion
- **Contract Address** - The contract address associated with the transaction. Click the address to navigate to the **Address Detail** page.

```

Author: correction made

- **(Receiving) Address** - The receiving address associated with the transfer transaction. Click the address receiving asset to **Address Detail** page.

> ## Gobi Testnet Block Explorer Features

Author: correction made

The Gobi Testnet Block Explorer gives you the ability to search the blockchain for transactions, addresses, and statistics, including the customized features of:

- Backward Transfer
- Forward Transfer
- Fee Payment

> - Backward Transfer

Reviewer: `Backward Transfer` is here twice. Also, we should keep these in the order of which they will show in the section below (if it's not being done already). I'm not sure where the **Backward Transfer** section is on the page. 

I would also suggest making Backward Transfer, Forward Transfer and Fee Payment sub-sections of this section so it appears like that in the sidebar navigation

Author: correction made

Typically, when a user decides to move ZEN from a sidechain back to the mainchain (to either send ZEN to another sidechain or to cash out, for example) the backward transfer transaction is deployed. Backward transfers are initiated on EON (EVM sidechain) as special transactions batched in withdrawal certificates and propagated by EON nodes to the mainchain.

The Gobi Testnet Explorer highlights the Backward Transfer transaction:

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-backward.png").default} alt="backward-transaction" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

> - **Transaction Status** - Success or Error: (Awaiting internal transaction for reason)

Author: correction made

- **Transaction ID (hash)** - The unique identifier that validates the transaction. Click to **Transaction Detail** page.

> - **(Sending) Address** - The sending address of the transaction. Click the address receiving asset (link) to **Address Detail** page.

Reviewer: Edit wording here, similar to previous comment

Author: correction made

- **Elapsed timer for the block** - A timer that displays the elapsed time since block creation period.

## Forward Transfer

When a user requests for tZEN from the Horizen Faucet, the forward transfer transaction is initiated. A forward transfer moves assets from the mainchain to the sidechain. These transactions, more specifically the transaction outputs, are unspendable on the mainchain, but include some metadata so they are redeemable on EON (EVM sidechain). 
It is the responsibility of EON nodes to monitor the mainchain for incoming transactions, and include them in EON.

The Gobi Testnet Explorer highlights the Forward Transfer transaction:

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-forward.png").default} alt="forward-transaction" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Transaction Status** - Success or Error: (Awaiting internal transaction for reason)
- **Transaction ID (hash)** - The unique identifier that validates the transaction.
- **(Receiving) Address** - The recipient address of the transaction.
- **Amount of tZEN** - The amount of tZEN transferred in the transaction.
- **Block Number** - The number assigned to the block.

> - **Elapsed timer for the block** - A timer that displays the elapsed time since block creation period.

Reviewer: This is different wording than the definition previously. We should make sure that all definitions are uniformed if they will be repeated on the page

Author: made corrections

## Fee Payment

> The blockchain fee is tZEN-specific fee that is charged to users when processing transactions. The fee is required to process the transaction on the Gobi Testnet and ensure that transfers arrive at their expected destination. The fees are aggregated and paid to forger nodes that have forged at least one block during the last withdrawal epoch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The blockchain fee is a tZEN-denoted fee that users are charged when processing transactions. The fee is required to process the transaction on the Gobi Testnet and ensure that transfers arrive at their expected destination. The fees are aggregated and paid to forger nodes that have forged at least one block during the last withdrawal epoch.

```

The Gobi Testnet Explorer highlights the Fee Payment transactions:

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-fee.png").default} alt="fee-payment" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Address** - The wallet address receiving the fee payment. 
- **Amount of tZEN** - The amount of tZEN transferred in the transaction.
- **Block Number** - The number assigned to the block.
- **Elapsed timer for the block** - A timer that displays the elapsed time since block creation period.

# Blockchain Menu

The Blockchain menu has two feature sections:

- Blocks
- Transactions

## Blocks 
The Blocks section includes:

> - Blocks

Reviewer: I'm assuming this is its own separate section inside of the Blocks section? Should there not be a subsection or definition here for `Blocks`?

Author: made correction

- Forged Blocks (Reorg)

### Forged Blocks (Reorgs)
Forged blocks or chain reorganization (reorgs) takes place when a block is removed from the blockchain and a node receives blocks that are part of a new (longest) chain.

The Gobi Testnet Explorer highlights the Reorgs:

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-reorg.png").default} alt="reorgs" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Block Number** - The number assigned to the block.
- **Transactions** - The number of transactions for the block.
- **Bytes** - The number of bytes for the block.

> - **Elapsed timer for the block** - Clock counting since block creation period.

Reviewer: edit wording

Author: made corrections

> - **Miner (wallet) address** - The miner's wallet address. Click the address to **Address Detail** page.

Reviewer: Edit wording

Author: made corrections

- **Priority  Fee** - The priority fee is the additional amount of fee to have your transaction complete faster. This is also known as a tip.

> - **Reward Pool Fee** - The total amount of required fee users paid for the transactions in this block. This is also known as base fee. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Reward Pool Fee** - The total amount of required fees users paid for the transactions in this block. This is also known as the base fee. 

```

- **Gas Limit** - The maximum amount of total gas consumed for all transactions in one block.
- **Gas Used** - The total amount of gas used by all transactions in this block.

## Transactions  
The Transactions section includes:

- Validated 
- [Forward Transfer](#forward-transfer) 
- [Fee Payments](#fee-payment)
- Pending
- Verified Contracts

### Validated Transactions
Transaction validation indicates that a transaction conforms to a specific protocol requirement to deem it as valid. Once the transaction is considered valid it is added to the distributed ledger.
 
The **Validated Transaction** feature provides key information about the transaction.

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-validated.png").default} alt="validated-transaction" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

> - **Transaction Status** - Success or Error: (Awaiting internal transaction for reason)

Reviewer: wording

Author: correction made

- **Transaction ID (hash)** - The unique identifier that validates the transaction.
- **Address** - The wallet address initiating the transaction. 
- **Transaction Fee** - The amount charged to process the transaction.

> - **Contract Address** - Click the address to Address Detail page.

Reviewer: edit wording

Reviewer: Also for consistency, remember to describe what the contract address is for

Author: made corrections

> - **(Receiving) Address** - Click the address receiving asset to Address Detail page.

Reviewer: edit wording

Author: made corrections

- **Block Number** - The number assigned to the block.

> - **Elapsed timer for the block** - A timer that displays the elapsed time since block creation period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Elapsed timer for the block** - A timer that displays the elapsed time since the block creation period.

```
I like this definition better than the previous instances of this definition bc it is clearer. I'm just not certain if using the word "period" is accurate in this instance. Or if it should just end on "...since block creation." cc: @voyenavion

### Pending Transactions
Currently this feature is not enabled.

### Verified Contracts 
A verified contract shares its source code with the public, including the compiler setting. The verification process compares the generated bytecode with the one deployed on-chain.

The Verified Contracts feature provides key information about the contract.

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-verified-contract.png").default} alt="verified-contracts" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Total Number of Contracts in the Last 24 hours** - The total number of verified contracts in the last 24 hours.
- **Address** - The contract address. 
- **Balance** - The total amount of tZEN associated with the smart contract address.
- **Transaction (Txns)** - The number of transactions associated with the verified contract.
- **Compiler** - The name of the compiler type.
- **Version** - The version number of the compiler type.

> - **Optimization** - A green check mark indicates that optimization is applied. A red cross indicates that optimization was not applied.

Reviewer: Can we explain what `Optimization` means

- **Construction Args** - A green check mark indicates that construction arguments were used. A red cross indicates that construction arguments were not used.
- **Verified** - A timer that displays the elapsed time since the contract was verified.
- **Market Cap** - The value of the token if it is bought and sold with fiat currency.

> # Tokens Menu

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be showing up as a section in the sidebar navigation menu. I would expect this to be a section and `All` and `tZEN` to be sub-sections of this

Author: made correction

The Tokens menu has two feature options:

- All
- tZEN 

## All (Tokens)

The All (Tokens) option displays all ERC-20 tokens in the blockchain. 

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-alltokens.png").default} alt="all-tokens" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Token (name)** - The name of the token.

> - **Address** - The wallet address associated with the token. Click the address to **Address Detail** page.

Reviewer: edit wording

Author: made corrections

- **Total Supply** - The total amount of available tokens.
- **Holder Count** - The number of accounts with some amount of the token listed.

## tZEN (Address)

The tZEN (Address) option displays all addresses with tZEN balances in the blockchain. 

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-tzentokens.png").default} alt="tzen-tokens" width="500" height="300" />
</p>

Key information includes:

- **Address** - The wallet address. Click the address to **Address Detail** page.
- **Balance** - The total amount of tZEN.
- **Txn Count** - The number of transactions associated with this tZEN that are sent.

> # API Menu

Reviewer: Same thing is going on here as far as sections/sub-section issue

Author: made correction

The API menu has three feature options that are helpful resources for blockchain development and technical support:

- GraphQL
- RPC

> - Eth RPC

Author: correction made

## GraphQL

**GraphQL** is a query language for APIs and a runtime for queries with data. It provides a complete review of your API and data. See [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) for more information.

## RPC 

> The **RPC** option displays the API Documentation for developing applications and porting from Etherscan and Blockscout. Click on the desired API category for detailed information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **RPC** option displays the API Documentation for developing applications and porting from Etherscan and Blockscout. Click on the desired API category for more detailed information.

```

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-rpc.png").default} alt="rpc-api_documentation" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

> ## Eth RPC 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## ETH RPC 

```

Author: correction made

> The **Eth RPC** option displays the Eth API Documentation. The documentation provides supported RPC methods for sending requests to Blockscout.  Scroll to the desired RPC method for detailed information.

Author: correction made

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-eth-rpc.png").default} alt="eth rpc-api_documentation" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

# Address Details

> The **Address Details** page displays the selected address and associated information. This option provides links to other detail information including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Address Details** page displays the selected address and its associated information. This option provides links to additional information including:

```

</p>

Key information includes:

- **Token** - The name of the token associated with the contract address. 
- **Creator** - Transaction and address of creation. 
- **Balance** - Address balance in tZEN does not include ERC20, ERC721, ERC1155 tokens).
- **Tokens** - All tokens in the account and total value.
- **Transactions** - Number of transactions related to this address.
- **Transfers** - Number of transfers to/from this address.
- **Gas Used** - Gas used by the address.
- **Last Balance Update** - Block number in which the address was updated.

### Transactions Tab
The **Transactions** tab displays all transactions that are associated with the selected contract address.  

<p>
<img src={require("/img/docs/blockscout/gobi-exp-transactiontab.png").default} alt="transaction tab" width="900" height="700" />
</p>

For each transaction, the contract call status is displayed along with specific information which includes:

- **Transaction Hash** - The transaction Id or hash associated with the contract. Click for Transaction Details.
- **Address** - The address associated with the contract. Click for Address Details.

> - **Transaction Fee** - The amount of tZEN fee for the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transaction Fee** - The amount charged to process the transaction.

```
